---
bibliography:
- references.bib
title: Leadership in Cross Cultural Context Assignment 2
---

<div class="center">

**Prasannjeet Singh**  
Växjö, Sweden

</div>

# Chapter 7: Negotiating global partnerships

**Key term: Collaboration (Conflict resolution)**

“Collaboration” is one of the five strategies (accommodation,
competition, avoidance and compromise) for resolving conflicts. The
choice of conflict resolution strategies depends upon two factors i.e.
importance of a relationship and importance of outcome. Collaboration
strategy is used when both factors are high. In other words,
collaboration strategy refers to a joint search for a solution to a
problem representing a win-win for all parties involved ().

**Challenges and possibilities concerning multicultural wok
environments**

The challenge lies in determining the right situation for this strategy
as it is not always obvious that what approach a manager should take.
Because this is hard to identify that how crucial a particular situation
is for other party. “Power” among parties also play crucial role in
approaching certain situations (). In addition to this, considering
multi-culture work environment, different countries will approach same
situation differently () which pose a great challenge for a manager to
resolve a conflict. As, both relation and outcome stakes are high so
collaboration should be done by understanding all cultural assumptions
of the parties involved.

**Strategies to managing multicultural work teams**

According to there are **four** strategies to manage multicultural work
teams and that is **Adaptation** (Acknowledging cultural gaps openly and
working around them), **Structural intervention** (Changing shape of the
team), **Managerial intervention** (setting norms early or bringing in a
higher-level manager, **Exit** (removing a team member when other
options have failed).

For collaboration strategy to become effective, adaptation strategy will
work well because this will give good understanding of parties involved
both in terms of thinking and behaviour.

# Chapter 8: Managing ethical conflicts

**Key term: Ethics**

The term “Ethics” is referred as the set of guiding principles regarding
one on one relationships between individuals ().

**Challenges and possibilities concerning multicultural work
environments**

The major challenge that managers in multi-culture work environment can
face is that different cultures can have different ethical standard that
may result in different perceptions and several judgements (). Different
multinational companies have different views regarding child labour,
gender discrimination, environmental pollution, nepotism, human rights,
corruption etc. and even within a company, employee can have conflict
with the company ethics. And as a result, it would become difficult for
a manager to keep such employees motivated. Ethical understanding also
make decision making challenging for the managers because there is
possibility of many cross-cultural conflicts due to ethical
misunderstandings ().

**Strategies to managing multicultural work teams**

"Adaptation strategy" will best suit ethical consideration because it
will allow managers to understand cross cultures in a better way and
help them understand differences in ethical standards.

# Chapter 9: Managing work and motivation

**Key term: Intrinsic rewards**

"Intrinsic rewards” are rewards that employee feel as a result of
completing one´s job satisfactorily such as recognition or pat on back
from boss, proud moment etc. ().

**Challenges and possibilities concerning multicultural work
environments**

Challenge within intrinsic reward is that, “reward preferences” vary
from employee to employee such as some employee like to have recognition
of his/her work in some way, whereas the other just want boss smile or
thumbs up or pat on back etc. Reward preference are also culture bound
such as some cultures value job security, some give importance to good
interpersonal skills, some consider individual status and respect as the
most important reward etc. In multicultural work environment, it is very
important for a manager to know his/her employees in a better way and
then reward employee’s effort in a way employee expects. If manager
reward employee in other way as employee is expecting, then this will
not motivate employee. Which means bigger responsibility lies on manager
shoulders to know his/her employees well i.e. what kind of rewards
motivate his/her subordinates? ().

**Strategies to managing multicultural work teams**

In this case, “adaptation” strategy will work because according to this
strategy leads to acknowledging cultural gaps openly and working around
them. The more the manager or employees know each other´s culture,
habits, wishes the more it would be easy to know intrinsic motivators of
employees or co-workers.

# Chapter 10: Managing global teams

**Key term: Global teams**

“Global team” refers to a group of heterogeneous employees from two or
more countries, and sometimes two or more companies, who work together
to coordinate, develop, or manage some aspect of a firm’s global
operations. Global teams provide the skill set from different social,
cultural and business aspects and play a major role in the success of
goals and targets ().

**Challenges and possibilities concerning multicultural work
environments**

Although “global teams” are more creative in developing ideas and
solutions and results in increased understanding of global markets. But
due to different working habits, conflicts and misunderstandings have
more chance to occur, decisions take longer time to get implemented,
even it takes a lot of time to finalize the decisions, bonding among
employees is difficult to achieve so it takes a lot of time to know each
other, thus resulting in more work for managers to manage the diverse
work force ().

**Strategies to managing multicultural work teams**

“Adaptation strategy” will fulfil the purpose for global teams as it
emphasizes the importance of knowing each other’s culture.

# Chapter 11: Managing global assignments

**Key term: Psychological adjustment**

Psychological adjustment can be defined as the process of developing a
way of life in the new country that is personally satisfying ().

**Challenges and possibilities concerning multicultural work
environments**

Adjusting oneself in a new environment can be stressful and tiring
because of too much new information and need to learn that information
as soon as possible. Employees also find it difficult to interpret new
cues because they can not use their past experience to interpret and
respond to cues. This makes new employees frustrated and depressed. New/
Foreign employees pass through different stages during this whole
process of settling in a new environment i.e. honeymoon,
disillusionment, adaptation, bi-culturalism (). For a manager, it is
really hard to guess sometimes at what stage the new employee is and how
much work load he/she can manage at a certain point in time. Too much
workload can cause demotivation and new employees can feel loss of
control whereas giving less work can cause boredom or lack of interest.
The challenge for a manager is to balance each and every aspect of new
employee work life. And also to know what the employee is feeling, what
difficulties the employee is currently facing both in work and personal
life etc.

**Strategies to managing multicultural work teams**

“Adaptation strategy” will work in this scenario also because it allows
co-workers and managers to know each other better.

# Overall Summary

From all above discussion, it can be said that “culture” plays an
important role in building good interpersonal relationships as well as
increased performance and productivity. In today´s high tech business
world, the skill that is most challenging is managerial/leadership skill
because it has to deal with humans and human behaviour changes all the
time. Humans do not behave or act the same even in similar situations.
So, it takes a lot of wisdom, skill and empathy to manage employees.
Adaptation strategy is a good strategy to manage multicultural work
teams because it allows employees to know each other´s culture better
and get adapted.
